Flex CLI docs (#177)
sharetribe/flex-docs: src/docs/tutorials/02-getting-started-with-flex-cli/index.md

---
title: Getting started with Flex CLI
slug: getting-started-with-flex-cli
updated: 2019-09-10
category: tutorials
ingress:
  This tutorial shows you how to get started with the Flex CLI. You will learn how to log in with your API key, how to use the help command and other basic commands.
skills: basic command line, text editing
published: true
---

<script id="asciicast-267478" src="https://asciinema.org/a/267478.js" data-autoplay="true" data-speed="1.5" data-loop="1" async></script>

Flex CLI (Command-line interface) is a tool for changing your
marketplace's advanced configurations such as transaction processes
and email templates.

For this tutorial you should have basic knowledge of command-line and
how to run basic commands.

Let's get started!

## Install Flex CLI

Flex CLI is distributed via
[npmjs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/flex-cli). To install packages
from npmjs, you will need to download and install Node.js development
environment:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/docs/install)

> When you have installed Node.js and Yarn, installing Flex CLI is easy as:

Author: ```suggestion
When you have installed Node.js and Yarn, type the following command to install Flex CLI:
```

Remove "easy". Makes a user who fails to run this feel stupid.

```
yarn global add flex-cli
```

To verify that Flex CLI was successfully installed, run:

```
flex-cli
```

This command should show you the CLI version and list available commands.

## Help

<script id="asciicast-267479" src="https://asciinema.org/a/267479.js" data-autoplay="true" data-speed="1.5" data-loop="1" async></script>

`flex-cli help` is the command to see the list of available commands:

```
flex-cli help
```

In order to see subcommand help, pass the command as an argument for
the `flex-cli help` command. For example, let's see help for command
`login`.

```
flex-cli help login
```

> ## Get an API key

Author: Update this paragraph. Go to Console to get the API key.

address.

## List processes and process versions

<asciinema recording-id="267481"></asciinema>

Now that you have successfully logged in and know how to use the
`help` command, let's use CLI to list processes and process versions
in your marketplace.

The command to list processes is `process list`. Let's see the help
first:

```bash
flex-cli help process list
```

As you can see, the command requires `MARKETPLACE IDENT` option. You
can use either the long form `--marketplace=<marketplace ident here>`
or short form `-m <marketplace ident here>`. Optionally the command
takes `--process=PROCESS NAME` parameter to get detailed information
about a single process.

Let's list all the processes:

```bash
flex-cli process list -m my-test-marketplace
```

This command shows you a list of transaction processes in your marketplace.

## Summary

In this tutorial, we installed Flex CLI, logged in using an API key
and tried some example commands. In addition, we familiarized
ourselves with the `help` command that is the main source of
documentation for the Flex CLI.

Now that we know how to list processes, the next this is to [make a

> small change to the existing process](/tutorials/03-edit-transaction-process-with-flex-cli/).

Author: ```suggestion
small change to the existing process](/tutorials/edit-transaction-process-with-flex-cli/).
```

<script id="asciicast-267481" src="https://asciinema.org/a/267481.js" data-autoplay="true" data-speed="1.5" data-loop="1" async></script>

Now that you have successfully logged in and know how to use the
`help` command, let's use CLI to list processes and process versions
in your marketplace.

The command to list processes is `process list`. Let's see the help
first:

```
flex-cli help process list
```

As you can see, the command requires `MARKETPLACE IDENT` option. You
can use either the long form `--marketplace=<marketplace ident here>`
or short form `-m <marketplace ident here>`. Optionally the command
takes `--process=PROCESS NAME` parameter to get detailed information
about a single process.

Let's list all the processes:

```
flex-cli process list -m my-test-marketplace
```

This command shows you a list of transaction processes in your marketplace.

## Summary

In this tutorial, we installed Flex CLI, logged in using an API key
and tried some example commands. In addition, we familiarized
ourselves with the `help` command that is the main source of
documentation for the Flex CLI.

Now that we know how to list processes, the next this is to [make a

> small change to the existing process](/tutorials/03-edit-transaction-process-with-flex-cli).

Reviewer: Always add the trailing slash to internal links to avoid unnecessary redirects.

```suggestion
small change to the existing process](/tutorials/03-edit-transaction-process-with-flex-cli/).
```
